Add disaggregated architecture document (#7691)
Minio-io/minio: docs/bigdata/README.md

# **Disaggregated HDP Spark and Hive with MinIO**

## **1. Cloud-native Architecture**

> ![alt_text](images/image1.png "image_tooltip")

Reviewer: Image tool tips should be descriptive for accessibility

> Kubernetes manages stateless Spark and Hive containers elastically on the compute nodes. Spark has native scheduler integration with Kubernetes. Hive, for legacy reasons uses YARN scheduler on top of Kubernetes. \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes manages stateless Spark and Hive containers elastically on the compute nodes. Spark has native scheduler integration with Kubernetes. Hive, for legacy reasons, uses YARN scheduler on top of Kubernetes. \
```

## **2. Prerequisites**

*   Install Hortonworks Distribution using this [guide.](https://docs.hortonworks.com/HDPDocuments/Ambari-2.7.1.0/bk_ambari-installation/content/ch_Installing_Ambari.html)
    *   [Setup Ambari](https://docs.hortonworks.com/HDPDocuments/Ambari-2.7.1.0/bk_ambari-installation/content/set_up_the_ambari_server.html) which automatically sets up YARN
    *   [Installing Spark](https://docs.hortonworks.com/HDPDocuments/HDP3/HDP-3.0.1/installing-spark/content/installing_spark.html)
*   Install MinIO Distributed Server using one of the guides below.
    *   [Deployment based on Kubernetes](https://docs.min.io/docs/deploy-minio-on-kubernetes.html#minio-distributed-server-deployment)
    *   [Deployment based on MinIO Helm Chart](https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/minio)

## **3. Configure Hadoop, Spark, Hive to use MinIO**

> After successful installation navigate to the Ambari UI http://<ambari-server>:8080/ and login using the default credentials: [**_username: admin, password: admin] _**

Reviewer: There is something wrong with the placement of _ for italics, think it is supposed to be 
```
[**_username: admin, password: admin_**]
```

![alt_text](images/image2.png "image_tooltip")

### **3.1 Configure Hadoop**

> Navigate to **Services** -> **HDFS** -> **CONFIGS** -> **ADVANCED **as shown below

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to **Services** -> **HDFS** -> **CONFIGS** -> **ADVANCED** as shown below
```

![alt_text](images/image3.png "image_tooltip")

Navigate to **Custom core-site** to configure MinIO parameters for `_s3a_` connector

> ![alt_text](images/image4.png "image_tooltip")

Reviewer: We don't explicitly state that the user need to click the Add Property link prior to this img.  Also, although it can be derived from the image, we should explicitly state they need to choose "bulk property add" mode

Author: I think that's not needed @eco-minio the image does really indicate that. While this doc is a lot of spoon feeding but I think we don't need to be even more explicit.

Add the following optimal entries for _core-site.xml_ to configure _s3a_ with **MinIO**. Most important options here are

> 

Reviewer: We should add an additional code block with all the fs options below so it can be copy / pasted

Author: No we don't need to double document that @eco-minio - it's not a verbatim document it's about learning.

*   _fs.s3a.access.key=minio_ (Access Key to access MinIO instance, this is obtained after the deployment on k8s)
*   _fs.s3a.secret.key=minio123_ (Secret Key to access MinIO instance, this is obtained after the deployment on k8s)
*   _fs.s3a.endpoint=http://minio-address/_
*   _fs.s3a.path.style.acces=true_

> Rest of the other optimization options are discussed here

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The rest of the other optimization options are discussed in the links below
```

> Rest of the other optimization options are discussed here

Reviewer: Are users expected to use any of the additional values or is this reference only?

Author: Its upto them, that is part of the discussion we can have.

*   [https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/current/hadoop-aws/tools/hadoop-aws/index.html](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/current/hadoop-aws/tools/hadoop-aws/index.html)
*   [https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-aws/tools/hadoop-aws/committers.html](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.1.1/hadoop-aws/tools/hadoop-aws/committers.html)

> ![alt_text](images/image5.png "image_tooltip")

Reviewer: Does this image belong here?  It looks like it was supposed to be added above to where we originally reference Custom core-site

Author: Correct

> Once the config changes are applied, proceed to restart **Hadoop** services.

Reviewer: Do we need to explicitly state how to restart Hadoop services?  Edit: It looks like the image got swapped with the Spark 2 image from below, they should be switched.

> ![alt_text](images/image6.png "image_tooltip")

Reviewer: This image looks out of place, I think it is supposed to go after the title of the next section

### **3.2 Configure Spark2**

Navigate to **Services** -> **Spark2** -> **CONFIGS** as shown below

![alt_text](images/image7.png "image_tooltip")

Navigate to “**Custom spark-defaults**” to configure MinIO parameters for `_s3a_` connector

![alt_text](images/image8.png "image_tooltip")

Add the following optimal entries for _spark-defaults.conf_ to configure Spark with **MinIO**.

> 

Reviewer: Same feedback as above for adding an additional code block to allow for copy/paste

*   _spark.hadoop.fs.s3a.committer.magic.enabled=true_
*   _spark.hadoop.fs.s3a.committer.name=magic_
*   _spark.hadoop.fs.s3a.impl=org.apache.hadoop.fs.s3a.S3AFileSystem_
*   _spark.hadoop.fs.s3a.path.style.access=true_
*   _spark.hadoop.mapreduce.outputcommitter.factory.scheme.s3a=org.apache.hadoop.fs.s3a.commit.S3ACommitterFactory_

> ![alt_text](images/image9.png "image_tooltip")

Reviewer: Is this image in the right place?

Once the config changes are applied, proceed to restart **Spark** services.

> ![alt_text](images/image10.png "image_tooltip")

Reviewer: Think this is the wrong image, should be showing restart, and Hive configuration should be in the next section

### **3.3 Configure Hive**

> Navigate to **Services** -> **Hive** -> **CONFIGS **-> **ADVANCED** as shown below

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to **Services** -> **Hive** -> **CONFIGS**-> **ADVANCED** as shown below
```

![alt_text](images/image11.png "image_tooltip")

Navigate to “**Custom hive-site**” to configure MinIO parameters for `_s3a_` connector

> ![alt_text](images/image12.png "image_tooltip")

Reviewer: Image in wrong place

> Add the following optimal entries for `**_hive-site.xml`_** to configure Hive with **MinIO**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the following optimal entries for `hive-site.xml` to configure Hive with **MinIO**.
```

> 

Reviewer: As above, code block to allow copy/paste

*   _hive.blobstore.use.blobstore.as.scratchdir=true_
*   _hive.exec.input.listing.max.threads=50_
*   _hive.load.dynamic.partitions.thread=25_
*   _hive.metastore.fshandler.threads=50_
*   _hive.mv.files.threads=40_
*   _mapreduce.input.fileinputformat.list-status.num-threads=50_

> To know more information about these options please visit [https://www.cloudera.com/documentation/enterprise/5-11-x/topics/admin_hive_on_s3_tuning.html](https://www.cloudera.com/documentation/enterprise/5-11-x/topics/admin_hive_on_s3_tuning.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about these options please visit [https://www.cloudera.com/documentation/enterprise/5-11-x/topics/admin_hive_on_s3_tuning.html](https://www.cloudera.com/documentation/enterprise/5-11-x/topics/admin_hive_on_s3_tuning.html)
```

![alt_text](images/image13.png "image_tooltip")

Once the config changes are applied, proceed to restart all Hive services.

> ![alt_text](images/image14.png "image_tooltip")

Reviewer: Image shows Stop and Restart highlighted, we should only show the correct option

## **4. Run Sample Applications**

After installing Hive, Hadoop and Spark successfully, we can now proceed to run some sample applications to see if they are configured appropriately.  We can use Spark Pi and Spark WordCount programs to validate our Spark installation. We can also explore how to run Spark jobs from the command line and Spark shell.

### **4.1 Spark Pi**

> Test the Spark installation by running the following compute-intensive example, which calculates pi by “throwing darts” at a circle. The program generates points in the unit square ((0,0) to (1,1)) and counts how many points fall within the unit circle within the square. The result approximates pi.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test the Spark installation by running the following compute intensive example, which calculates pi by “throwing darts” at a circle. The program generates points in the unit square ((0,0) to (1,1)) and counts how many points fall within the unit circle within the square. The result approximates pi.
```

Follow these steps to run the Spark Pi example:

> *   Login as user **‘spark’.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   Login as user **‘spark’**.
```

> *   When the job runs, the library can now use **MinIO **during intermediate processing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   When the job runs, the library can now use **MinIO** during intermediate processing.
```

> *   Navigate to a node with Spark client and access the spark2-client directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   Navigate to a node with the Spark client and access the spark2-client directory:
```

```
cd /usr/hdp/current/spark2-client
su spark
```

*   Run the Apache Spark Pi job in yarn-client mode, using code from **org.apache.spark**:

```
./bin/spark-submit --class org.apache.spark.examples.SparkPi \
    --master yarn-client \
    --num-executors 1 \
    --driver-memory 512m \
    --executor-memory 512m \
    --executor-cores 1 \
    examples/jars/spark-examples*.jar 10
```

The job should produce an output as shown below. Note the value of pi in the output.

```
17/03/22 23:21:10 INFO DAGScheduler: Job 0 finished: reduce at SparkPi.scala:38, took 1.302805 s
Pi is roughly 3.1445191445191445
```

> Job status can also be viewed in a browser by navigating to the YARN ResourceManager Web UI and clicking on job history server information.

Reviewer: Would be good to add an image for this

### **4.2 WordCount**

WordCount is a simple program that counts how often a word occurs in a text file. The code builds a dataset of (String, Int) pairs called counts, and saves the dataset to a file.

> The following example submits WordCount code to the Scala shell: Select an input file for the Spark WordCount example. We can use any text file as input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example submits WordCount code to the Scala shell. Select an input file for the Spark WordCount example. We can use any text file as input.
```

> *   Login as user **‘spark’.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   Login as user **‘spark’**.
```

> *   When the job runs, the library can now use **MinIO **during intermediate processing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   When the job runs, the library can now use **MinIO** during intermediate processing.
```

*   Navigate to a node with Spark client and access the spark2-client directory:

```
cd /usr/hdp/current/spark2-client
su spark
```

The following example uses _log4j.properties_ as the input file:

#### **4.2.1 Upload the input file to HDFS:**

> ```

Reviewer: Do we need to explicitly state that testbucket is within MinIO?

Author: We don't need to @eco-minio

hadoop fs -copyFromLocal /etc/hadoop/conf/log4j.properties
          s3a://testbucket/testdata
```

#### **4.2.2  Run the Spark shell:**

```
./bin/spark-shell --master yarn-client --driver-memory 512m --executor-memory 512m
```

The command should produce an output as shown below. (with additional status messages):

```
Spark context Web UI available at http://172.26.236.247:4041
Spark context available as 'sc' (master = yarn, app id = application_1490217230866_0002).
Spark session available as 'spark'.
Welcome to

      ____              __
     / __/__  ___ _____/ /__
    _\ \/ _ \/ _ `/ __/  '_/
   /___/ .__/\_,_/_/ /_/\_\   version 2.1.0.2.6.0.0-598
      /_/

Using Scala version 2.11.8 (Java HotSpot(TM) 64-Bit Server VM, Java 1.8.0_112)
Type in expressions to have them evaluated.
Type :help for more information.

scala>
```

> *   At the _scala>_ prompt, submit the job by typing the following commands, replace node names, file name, and file location with your values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   At the _scala>_ prompt, submit the job by typing the following commands, Replace node names, file name, and file location with your values:
```
